# Foster-Care-and-Adoption

The goal of my project is to create a predictive model to forecast the number of children adopted, waiting to be adopted, and still in foster care on a national scale. I also want to segment states based on their adoption and foster care system metrics, identifying states with similar patterns and characteristics.
The data for my project will be collected from the Adoption and Foster Care Analysis and Reporting System (AFCARS) put out each year by the Children’s Bureau of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Each year, from the early 2000s and onward, the AFCARS program releases a report on the status of foster care in the U.S. These reports include information on how many kids have been adopted with public agency involvement within the year, how many children are currently in foster care, the demographics of the children, why they are in foster care, how long children are usually in foster care, etc. The same data is collected and reported on for each state. Data for each states total number of children currently in foster care, total number of children waiting to be adopted, and total number of children adopted for the year 2013-2022 is available in excel file format at Trends in Foster Care and Adoption: FY 2013 – 2022 | The Administration for Children and Families (hhs.gov). The year by year reports can be found in pdf format at Data and Statistics: AFCARS | The Administration for Children and Families (hhs.gov).
	In terms of visualizations, I would create heatmaps of the United States, highlighting different features of the foster care system or trends. For example, maybe I could create a heatmap of the US with percent increase in the adoption rates over the last 5 years or percent of children waiting to be adopted. I would also create plots to demonstrate trends in foster care and adoption over time. 
	In order to create a predictive model to forecast the number of children adopted, waiting to be adopted, and still in foster care on a national scale, I will likely have to create a time series analysis. To be completely honest, I am not 100% sure how to do this but I am working on it. I am thinking, based on just looking at the data and looking up how to do a time series analysis, I will likely have to perform an AutoRegressive Integrated Moving Average model or a Long Short-Term Memory model. If this seems wrong, or if you have any tips, please let me know. In order to segment states with similar trends, I would use some sort of clustering algorithm like K-means clustering or mean shift clustering. 
